








Phase I
Web Crawlers
Sylvia Murray (BA, Computer Science)
Faculty Adviser: Dr. George Hauser
November 8, 2014












1.	Project Description
2.	Task Breakdown
3.	Preliminary Timetable
4.	Budget
5.	Annotated Bibliography
6.	Glossary

































Project Description  
Web Crawlers -- What are they? What can they do? How do they work? Why do we care?

Introduction	
Message Relevance
Questions:
	How does a web crawler search info - HTML - keywords?
	How does a search engine rank the information displayed?
	How is the Data stored? 
	How are the searches so speedy?
How big are the Database?
Index?
Commercial applications (How do you make money with search engines / web crawlers)
Who are the big players?
Can anyone play?
Security?
Privacy?
Integrity/Ethics/Morality? 
	Where does net neutrality come in?
Implementation?



Definition -- What is a web crawler – Technical Description?
Technical flaws
Implementation issues
Industry support
History
How they work
How to use / write program for?

Task Breakdown
	Introduction:
		This section will introduce and explain the project, describe what a web crawler is and why it is relevant.

	History:
		This section will cover the origins of web crawlers

	Technology: 
		This will be the technical area that describes how web crawlers work… What languages are used to write web crawlers – more in-depth info on how the information is stored and made available to searchers
	
	Social Impact
		If possible, this section will explore what the global impact of web crawlers is, or what was life before web crawlers. What about the content that is available – as far as computer technology, privacy and ethics

	Implementation:
		An implementation of a web crawler
		
	Conclusion
		What I learned – questions answered, value of web crawlers, ease of implementation…

	
	
Preliminary Timetable
	Gantt chart here
	
Budget
	Paper
	Software
	Books – 
	Tutorials
	Tutor

Annotaed Bibliography  
http://ricardopomalaza.hubpages.com/hub/The-World-Wide-Web-Wanderer-The-First-Web-Crawler-aka-Internet-Search-Bot 
This web page gives me a good place to start, as well as a really great image I am going to borrow for my Blog. 	



Glossary
	
	Bot (short for robot): Internet robot Search Robot a bot is an algorithm/software application whose job is to search the Web. 
	Cachen 
	Database
	Index
	Search Engine
	URL: uniform resource locator
	Web Crawler: Equivalent to a Bot. An algorithm/software application designed to traverse the web 
	World Wide Web
	World Wide Web Wanderer


Sources: 
http://www.mit.edu/people/mkgray/net/ 



	
Works Cited
Ackermann, Ernest, and Karen Hartman. Searching and Researching on the Internet and the World Wide Web. Wilsonville Oregon: Franklin, Beedle & Associates Inc., 2003.
Baeza -Yates, Ricardo, and Berthier Ribeiro-Neto. Modern Information Retrieval the concepts and technoloby behind search. Essex England: Pearson Education Limited, 2011.
Chakrabarti, Soumen. Mining the web Discovering Knowledge From Hypertext Data. San Francisco: Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 2003.
Langville, Amy N., and Carl D. Meyer. Google's PageRank and Beyond The Science of Serch Engine Rankings. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2006.
Segev, Elad. Google and the Digital Divide The bias of online knowledge. Oxford: Chandos Publishing, 2010.




